Add All Hands 2026 retrospective (#1887)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: content/inside-rust/all-hands-2026-retrospective/index.md

+++
path = "inside-rust/9999/12/31/all-hands-2026-retrospective"
title = "All Hands 2026 retrospective"
authors = ["Nurzhan Saken"]

[extra]
team = "the Program team"
team_url = "https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/launching-pad#team-program"
+++

> In May 2026, 166 Rustaceans gathered in Utrecht for the Rust All Hands. This event is an opportunity for the Rust Project members and invited guests to work on Rust in person for several days — discuss its future, resolve blockers, build connections between teams, and so on (but not make any final decisions!).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In May 2026, 166 Rustaceans gathered in Utrecht for the Rust All Hands. This event is an opportunity for the Rust Project members and guests to work on Rust in person for several days — discuss its future, resolve blockers, build connections between teams, and so on (but not make any final decisions!).
```

> This was the second All Hands organized by [RustNL](https://rustnl.org/), after [the one last year](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/09/30/all-hands-2026/) revived the tradition after a six-year hiatus. It was co-located with RustWeek both times, closing it off after the conference. And yes, the All Hands will happen again in 2027! More details at the end.

Reviewer: more standard expression
```suggestion
This was the second All Hands organized by [RustNL](https://rustnl.org/), after [the one last year](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/09/30/all-hands-2026/) revived the tradition after a six-year hiatus. It was co-located with RustWeek both times, closing it off after the conference. And yes, the All Hands will happen again in 2027! More details on that at the end.
```

![A large room full of Rustaceans and friends smiling into the camera](allhands.jpeg)

> Co-located with the All Hands was the Unconference, where invited ecosystem maintainers and contributors collaborated with each other and Rust Project members. This year, there were six participating groups: [Bevy Engine](https://bevy.org/), [Ariel OS](https://ariel-os.org/), [Linebender](https://linebender.org/), the [Safety-Critical Rust Consortium](https://github.com/Safety-Critical-Rust-Consortium), [Rust GPU](https://github.com/Rust-GPU), and [Rust Embedded](https://github.com/rust-embedded) — with around 60 members in total.

Reviewer: The second with just reads a little cleaner imo, but it's not strictly necessary
```suggestion
Also co-located with the All Hands was the Unconference, where invited ecosystem maintainers and contributors collaborated with each other and with Rust Project members. This year, there were six participating groups: [Bevy Engine](https://bevy.org/), [Ariel OS](https://ariel-os.org/), [Linebender](https://linebender.org/), the [Safety-Critical Rust Consortium](https://github.com/Safety-Critical-Rust-Consortium), [Rust GPU](https://github.com/Rust-GPU), and [Rust Embedded](https://github.com/rust-embedded) — with around 60 members in total.
```

> Similarly to last year, there was a Rust Project track on the second day of the conference, with talks presented by Project members (see [recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8Q1w7Ff68DBkk0ddSEqdf97swuDvMSKS)). The talks touched on some of the themes that the Rust teams discussed in greater depth in the All Hands sessions.

Reviewer: "Topics" instead of themes is not really necessary but so it doesn't rhyme with "teams"
```suggestion
Similarly to last year, there was a Rust Project track on the second day of the conference, with talks presented by Project members (see the [recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8Q1w7Ff68DBkk0ddSEqdf97swuDvMSKS)). The talks touched on some of the topics that the Rust teams discussed in greater depth in the All Hands sessions.
```

## Sessions

> There were 73 sessions spread across 3 days and 11 rooms, most of which were [pre-scheduled](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/main/all-hands-schedule.pdf), and some happened spontaneously. You can find all sessions and their meeting notes in [rust-lang/all-hands-2026](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There were 73 sessions spread across 3 days and 11 rooms, most of which were [pre-scheduled](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/main/all-hands-schedule.pdf), though some happened spontaneously. You can find the session notes in [rust-lang/all-hands-2026](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues).
```

The [State of the Rust teams](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/37) session kicked off the All Hands and provided a (literal) platform for teams to tell everyone about their activities.

> Many sessions focused on pressing topics in the Project's governance. The [Leadership Council](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/23) and [Project Directors](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/34) both held Q&A panels about their roles and processes, and how they relate to one another and the Rust Foundation. The [moderation panel](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/52) provided a safe space for Rust moderators to discuss the challenges they face, with support from [Q (head moderator of Hachyderm)](https://hachyderm.io/@quintessence). The [Project culture discussion](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/35) examined sources of disempowerment for maintainers and contributors, and ways to address them. The sessions on [Project Goals](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/19), [north stars](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/25), and [funding](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/20) looked at improving how the Project coordinates and communicates work. Finally, there was a discussion about [improving the RFC process](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/6), possibly integrating some ideas from the [TC39 process](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/27).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many sessions focused on pressing topics in the Project's governance. The [Leadership Council](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/23) and [Project Directors](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/34) both held Q&A panels about their roles and processes, and how they relate to one another and the Rust Foundation. The [moderation panel](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/52) provided a safe space for Rust moderators to discuss the challenges they face, with support from [Q (head moderator of Hachyderm)](https://hachyderm.io/@quintessence). The [Project culture discussion](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/35) examined sources of disempowerment for maintainers and contributors, and ways to address them. The sessions on [Project Goals](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/19), [north stars](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/25), and [funding](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/20) looked at improving how the Project coordinates and communicates work. Finally, there was a discussion about [improving the RFC process](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/6), possibly by integrating some ideas from the [TC39 process](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/27).
```

> Many sessions focused on pressing topics in the Project's governance. The [Leadership Council](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/23) and [Project Directors](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/34) both held Q&A panels about their roles and processes, and how they relate to one another and the Rust Foundation. The [moderation panel](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/52) provided a safe space for Rust moderators to discuss the challenges they face, with support from [Q (head moderator of Hachyderm)](https://hachyderm.io/@quintessence). The [Project culture discussion](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/35) examined sources of disempowerment for maintainers and contributors, and ways to address them. The sessions on [Project Goals](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/19), [north stars](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/25), and [funding](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/20) looked at improving how the Project coordinates and communicates work. Finally, there was a discussion about [improving the RFC process](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/6), possibly by integrating some ideas from the [TC39 process](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/27).

Author: ```suggestion
Many sessions focused on pressing topics in the Project's governance. The [Leadership Council](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/23) and [Project Directors](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/34) both held Q&A panels about their roles and processes, and how they relate to one another and the Rust Foundation. The [moderation panel](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/52) provided a safe space for Rust moderators to discuss the challenges they face, with support from [Q (head moderator of Hachyderm)](https://hachyderm.io/@quintessence)[^talk-mod]. The [Project culture discussion](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/35) examined sources of disempowerment for maintainers and contributors, and ways to address them. The sessions on [Project Goals](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/19), [north stars](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/25), and [funding](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/20) looked at improving how the Project coordinates and communicates work[^talk-comms]. Finally, there was a discussion about [improving the RFC process](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/6), possibly by integrating some ideas from the [TC39 process](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/27).

[^talk-mod]: See related [talk by Antonio Piraino and Oli Scherer](https://youtu.be/LrcTWBYJAyg).
[^talk-comms]: See related [talk by Niko Matsakis and Jack Huey](https://youtu.be/Gu17MeidD-Q).
```

> As expected, most of the sessions focused on the evolution of Rust itself. Teams discussed a wide variety of efforts, including [const generics](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/64), [const traits](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/39), field projections and reborrowing ([1](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/16), [2](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/53), [3](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/68)), [in-place initialization](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/17), [SIMD](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/45), [allocators](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/48)[^allocator], [custom lints](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/13), [stability attributes](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/14) for libraries, [`rustc` as a library](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/31), the [Sized Hierarchy](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/54), and [auto traits](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/28). Beyond these, there were numerous sessions on compiler internals, codegen, semantics, specification, tooling, and infrastructure.

Reviewer: Added "_the_ teams"

```suggestion
As expected, most of the sessions focused on the evolution of Rust itself. The teams discussed a wide variety of efforts, including [const generics](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/64), [const traits](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/39), field projections and reborrowing ([1](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/16), [2](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/53), [3](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/68)), [in-place initialization](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/17), [SIMD](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/45), [allocators](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/48)[^allocator], [custom lints](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/13), [stability attributes](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/14) for libraries, [`rustc` as a library](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/31), the [Sized Hierarchy](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/54), and [auto traits](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/28). Beyond these, there were numerous sessions on compiler internals, codegen, semantics, specification, tooling, and infrastructure.
```

> As expected, most of the sessions focused on the evolution of Rust itself. The teams discussed a wide variety of efforts, including [const generics](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/64), [const traits](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/39), field projections and reborrowing ([1](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/16), [2](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/53), [3](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/68)), [in-place initialization](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/17), [SIMD](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/45), [allocators](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/48)[^allocator], [custom lints](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/13), [stability attributes](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/14) for libraries, [`rustc` as a library](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/31), the [Sized Hierarchy](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/54), and [auto traits](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/28). Beyond these, there were numerous sessions on compiler internals, codegen, semantics, specification, tooling, and infrastructure.

Author: ```suggestion
As expected, most of the sessions focused on the evolution of Rust itself. The teams discussed a wide variety of efforts, including [const generics](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/64), [const traits](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/39), field projections[^talk-fp] and reborrowing[^talk-rb] ([1](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/16), [2](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/53), [3](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/68)), [in-place initialization](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/17), [SIMD](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/45), [allocators](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/48)[^allocator], [custom lints](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/13), [stability attributes](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/14) for libraries, [`rustc` as a library](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/31)[^talk-rustc], the [Sized Hierarchy](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/54), and [auto traits](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/28). Beyond these, there were numerous sessions on compiler internals, codegen, semantics, specification, tooling, and infrastructure.

[^talk-fp]: See related [talk by Benno Lossin and Nadrieril](https://youtu.be/S7nxamPK76M).
[^talk-rb]: See related [talk by Aapo Alasuutari](https://youtu.be/2GE0GL0ith4).
[^talk-rustc]: See related [talk by Alona Enraght-Moony](https://youtu.be/ExxxtADP-t8).
```

[^allocator]: This renewed the momentum to [stabilize `Allocator`](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/156882)!

Interoperability was another prominent topic. Discussions covered the [overall Rust/C++ interop problem and solution space](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/11)[^talk-interop], the [state of Rust/C++ interop using Crubit](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/67)[^talk-crubit], and [safer interop via combining LLVM IR with Rust MIR](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/26). It was also great to see in-person collaboration between the Rust Project and both [Rust for Linux](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/18)[^talk-rfl] and [Rust for CPython](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/32), aimed at unblocking further integration of Rust into the Linux kernel and CPython.

> [^talk-interop]: See related [RustWeek talk by Teor](https://youtu.be/0c-MNe1Nwe8) and [by Tyler Mandry](https://youtu.be/1NnCJTVYPA4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^talk-interop]: See related [talk by Teor](https://youtu.be/0c-MNe1Nwe8) and [talk by Tyler Mandry](https://youtu.be/1NnCJTVYPA4).
```

> [^talk-crubit]: See related [RustWeek talk by Bastian Kersting](https://youtu.be/mLzJfuaomZw).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^talk-crubit]: See related [talk by Bastian Kersting](https://youtu.be/mLzJfuaomZw).
```

> [^talk-rfl]: See related [RustWeek talk by Greg Kroah-Hartman](https://youtu.be/Nzmj7K0FNRY) and [live podcast by Greg K-H and Alice Ryhl](https://youtu.be/E0spRyDu5kk)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^talk-rfl]: See related [talk by Greg Kroah-Hartman](https://youtu.be/Nzmj7K0FNRY) and [live podcast by Greg K-H and Alice Ryhl](https://youtu.be/E0spRyDu5kk)
```

## Feedback

Overall, people loved the All Hands! Responders rated it 9.5/10 on average, and indicated they'd return next year if given the chance.

> Here are some of the things that people shared:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some of the things they shared:
```

>
> — Benno Lossin

> my highlight on the technical side is definitely that we seem to have finished the non-aliasing-model parts of the opsem. :) specifically, [reference](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/55) and [union validity](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues/58). FCPs are in progress.
> 
> We didnt make as much progress on terminology as I had hoped, though we did uncover new interesting questions which is at least some progress.
>
> — Ralf Jung

> I'm thrilled that we settled union operational semantics at the All Hands.
>
> I really appreciated the random conversations with people I didn't know. I'm glad that the event provides a low-friction way for Rust team members to make themselves available to others. :heart:
>
> Oh, another one! I loved the "state of the teams" session (thanks to Lori Lorusso for coordinating it). I know it kinda ballooned with the addition of more teams, and I'm glad it did; I loved having a quick overview of the state of many different teams, including teams I haven't had much view into before.
>
> — Josh Triplett

> > As someone totally new to the Project getting to meet people in person was really good and totally overwhelming but in a good way. I really enjoyed getting to have discussions with so many different people about a variety of rust and non rust topics. I really appreciate and can't thank the team reps enough that not only supported my session but created it (no way it would have worked if you all didn't step up to the stage) and for Mara giving me the opportunity to thank everyone in the closing session. This event and Mara's support did a lot for me and for what my position hopes to achieve. Now get those funding intake forms in!!!!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> As someone totally new to the Project getting to meet people in person was really good and totally overwhelming but in a good way. I really enjoyed getting to have discussions with so many different people about a variety of rust and non rust topics. I really appreciate and can't thank the team reps enough that not only supported my session but created it (no way it would have worked if you all didn't step up to the stage) and for Mara giving me the opportunity to thank everyone in the closing session. This event and Mara's support did a lot for me and for what my position hopes to achieve.
```
That part of the quote probably doesn't make a lot of sense without context?

>
> — Lori Lorusso

> Myself being fairly new, I went in not expecting much beyond just wanting to meet everyone, have a good time and watch people do their thing. But I contributed a fair amount to some meetings and had some very nice and productive 1:1 chats. It's also a totally different feeling contributing to rust now when you've met so many people IRL. 100% would do again.
> 
> — mejrs

> I was at the unconf rather than the all-hands, but I just wanted to say it was a fantastic experience! Having the two events co-located was great for the ability to build connections between ecosystem and project people and work on problems and solutions together. Everyone I interacted with from the project was incredibly friendly and enthusiastic and projected an infectious can-do attitude about making Rust better. As this was my first-time at a Rust event, I came in feeling a bit intimidated about being in the same building as all these brilliant people who have done such impactful work, and I left feeling welcomed, included, and excited for next year.
>
> — Jonathan Keller

## All Hands 2027

> The Rust All Hands will return next year! It will be part of [RustWeek 2027](https://2027.rustweek.org/) in **Utrecht, the Netherlands**, on **27–29 May**.

Reviewer: I think here it's better to clarify the opening, whether it was _decided_ that it would return next year, for example.

Save the date, and we'll be sharing more information later!

> Huge thanks to [Mara](https://mara.nl/) and [RustNL](https://rustnl.org/) for keeping up this amazing tradition with such deep level of care.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Huge thanks to [Mara](https://mara.nl/) and [RustNL](https://rustnl.org/) for keeping up this amazing tradition with such a deep level of care.
```
